---
layout: page
title: Bibliography
permalink: /bibliography/
---
<style>
.csl-entry{
 margin-left: 2em; 
 text-indent: -2em 
  
}
</style>
<h2>GO-SHIP Bibliography</h2>
<ul>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Abraham, J. P. et al. “A Review of Global Ocean Temperature Observations: Implications for Ocean Heat Content Estimates and Climate Change.” <i>Reviews of Geophysics</i> 51.3 (2013): 450–483. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Álvarez, Marta. “Unaccounted Role of Mediterranean Water in the Drawdown of Anthropogenic Carbon.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research</i> 110.C9 (2005): n. pag. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Álvarez, Marta, and Xosé Antón Álvarez-Salgado. “Biogeochemical Budgets in the Eastern Boundary Current System of the North Atlantic: Evidence of Net Heterotrophy and Nitrogen Fixation.” (2007): n. pag. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Álvarez, Marta, and Claire Gourcuff. “Uncoupled Transport of Chlorofluorocarbons and Anthropogenic Carbon in the Subpolar North Atlantic.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 57.7 (2010): 860–868. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Álvarez, M. et al. “Decadal Biogeochemical Changes in the Subtropical Indian Ocean Associated with Subantarctic Mode Water.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 116.C9 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Álvarez, M. et al. “Estimating the Storage of Anthropogenic Carbon in the Subtropical Indian Ocean: A Comparison of Five Different Approaches.” <i>Biogeosciences</i> 6.4 (2009): 681–703. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Alvarez-Rodriguez, M., and X. A. Alvarez-Salgado. “Chemical Tracer Transport in the Eastern Boundary Current System of the North Atlantic.” <i>Ciencias Marinas</i> 35.2 (2009): 123–139. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Ayers, Jennifer M., and Peter G. Strutton. “Nutrient Variability in Subantarctic Mode Waters Forced by the Southern Annular Mode and ENSO.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 40.13 (2013): 3419–3423. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Azetsu-Scott, K., and Uta Passow. “Ascending Marine Particles: Significance of Transparent Exopolymer Particles (TEP) in the Upper Ocean.” <i>Limnology and oceanography:</i> 49.3 (2004): 741–748. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Azetsu-Scott, Kumiko et al. “Composition and Fluxes of Freshwater through Davis Strait Using Multiple Chemical Tracers.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 117.C12 (2012): n/a–n/a. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Azetsu-Scott, Kumiko et al. “Calcium Carbonate Saturation States in the Waters of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and the Labrador Sea.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 115.C11 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Azetsu-Scott, Kumiko, E. Peter Jones, and Robert M. Gershey. “Distribution and Ventilation of Water Masses in the Labrador Sea Inferred from CFCs and Carbon Tetrachloride.” <i>Marine Chemistry</i> 94.1-4 (2005): 55–66. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Azetsu-Scott, Kumiko et al. “Time Series Study of CFC Concentrations in the Labrador Sea during Deep and Shallow Convection Regimes (1991–2000).” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 108.C11 (2003): n/a–n/a. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Barbero, Leticia et al. “Importance of Water Mass Formation Regions for the Air-Sea CO2 Flux Estimate in the Southern Ocean.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 25.1 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Billheimer, Sam, and Lynne D. Talley. “Near Cessation of Eighteen Degree Water Renewal in the Western North Atlantic in the Warm Winter of 2011–2012.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> (2013): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Birdsey, Richard et al. “Carbon Cycle Observations: Gaps Threaten Climate Mitigation Policies.” <i>Eos, Transactions American Geophysical Union</i> 90.34 (2009): 292–292. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Blunden, J., D. S. Arndt, and M. O. Baringer. “State of the Climate in 2010.” <i>Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society</i> 92.6 (2011): S1–S236. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Brewer, Peter G., and Edward T. Peltzer. “Limits to Marine Life.” <i>Science</i> 324.5925 (2009): 347–348. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Burd, Adrian B. et al. “Assessing the Apparent Imbalance between Geochemical and Biochemical Indicators of Meso- and Bathypelagic Biological Activity: What the @$♯! Is Wrong with Present Calculations of Carbon Budgets?” <i>Deep Sea Research Part II: Topical Studies in Oceanography</i> 57.16 (2010): 1557–1571. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Byrne, Robert H. et al. “Direct Observations of Basin-Wide Acidification of the North Pacific Ocean.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 37.2 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 7 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Capone, Douglas G. et al. <i>Nitrogen in the Marine Environment</i>. Academic Press, 2008. Print.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Carlson, Craig et al. “Dissolved Organic Carbon Export and Subsequent Remineralization in the Mesopelagic and Bathypelagic Realms of the North Atlantic Basin.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part II: Topical Studies in Oceanography</i> 57 (2010): 1433–1445. Print.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Carlson, CA, DA Hansell, and C Tamburini. “DOC Persistence and Its Fate after Export within the Ocean Interior.” <i>Microbial carbon pump in the ocean. Science/AAAS, Washington, DC. doi</i> 10 (2011): 57–59. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Carter, B.R. et al. “An Automated System for Spectrophotometric Seawater pH Measurements.” <i>Association for the Sciences of limnology and Oceanography</i> (2013): 16–27. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Casentini, Barbara, Maurizio Pettine, and Frank J. Millero. “Release of Arsenic from Volcanic Rocks through Interactions with Inorganic Anions and Organic Ligands.” <i>Aquatic Geochemistry</i> 16.3 (2010): 373–393. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Christian, James R. et al. “Testing an Ocean Carbon Model with Observed Sea Surface pCO2 and Dissolved Inorganic Carbon in the Tropical Pacific Ocean.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 113.C7 (2008): n/a–n/a. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Crea, Pasquale et al. “Effect of Ionic Strength and Temperature on the Protonation of Oxidized Glutathione.” <i>Journal of Solution Chemistry</i> 37.9 (2008): 1245–1259. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Crea, Pasquale et al. “Dissociation Constants of Protonated Oxidized Glutathione in Seawater Media at Different Salinities.” <i>Aquatic Geochemistry</i> 16.3 (2010): 447–466. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Daniault, N., H. Mercier, and P. Lherminier. “The 1992–2009 Transport Variability of the East Greenland-Irminger Current at 60°N.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 38.7 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Daniault, Nathalie, Pascale Lherminier, and Herlé Mercier. “Circulation and Transport at the Southeast Tip of Greenland.” <i>Journal of Physical Oceanography</i> 41.3 (2011): 437–457. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">de Boisséson, E. et al. “Mixed Layer Heat Budget in the Iceland Basin from Argo.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 115.C10 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Deutsch, C. et al. “Climate-Forced Variability of Ocean Hypoxia.” <i>Science</i> 333.6040 (2011): 336–339. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Deutsch, Curtis, Steven Emerson, and Luanne Thompson. “Physical-Biological Interactions in North Pacific Oxygen Variability.” <i>Journal of geophysical research</i> 111.C9 n. pag. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Deutsch, Curtis, Steven Emerson, and LuAnne Thompson. “Fingerprints of Climate Change in North Pacific Oxygen.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 32.16 (2005): n/a–n/a. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Dickson, Andrew. “Standards for Ocean Measurements.” <i>Oceanography</i> 23.3 (2010): 34–47. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Downes, Stephanie M. et al. “Tracing Southwest Pacific Bottom Water Using Potential Vorticity and Helium-3.” <i>Journal of Physical Oceanography</i> 42.12 (2012): 2153–2168. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Durack, Paul J., and Susan E. Wijffels. “Fifty-Year Trends in Global Ocean Salinities and Their Relationship to Broad-Scale Warming.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> 23.16 (2010): 4342–4362. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Durack, Paul J., Susan E. Wijffels, and Richard J. Matear. “Ocean Salinities Reveal Strong Global Water Cycle Intensification During 1950 to 2000.” <i>Science</i> 336.6080 (2012): 455–458. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Eakin, C. Mark et al. “Monitoring Coral Reefs from Space.” <i>Oceanography</i> 23.4 (2010): 118–133. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Feely, Richard A. et al. “Decadal Changes in the Aragonite and Calcite Saturation State
of the Pacific Ocean.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 26 (2012): n. pag. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Feely, R. A. et al. <i>Carbon Dioxide, Hydrographic, and Chemical Data Obtained during the R/V Knorr Repeat Hydrography Cruises in the North Atlantic Ocean: Clivar CO2 Sections A20_2003 and A22_2003</i>. N.p., 2008. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Feely, R.A., C.L. Sabine, F.J. Millero, C. Langdon, A.G. Dickson, R.A. Fine, J.L. Bullister, D.A. Hansell, C.A. Carlson, B.M. Sloyan, A.P. McNichol, R.M. Key, R.H. Byrne, and R. Wanninkhof. <i>Carbon Dioxide, Hydrographic, and Chemical Data Obtained during the R/Vs Roger Revelle and Thomas Thompson Repeat Hydrography Cruises in the Pacific Ocean: CLIVAR CO2 Sections P16S_2005 (6 January–19 February, 2005) and P16N_2006 (13 February–30 March, 20</i>. N.p., 2009. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Foti, Claudia et al. “Experimental Study and Modelling of Inorganic Cd2+ Speciation in Natural Waters.” <i>Environmental Chemistry</i> 8.3 (2011): 320. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Friedrich, T. et al. “Detecting Regional Anthropogenic Trends in Ocean Acidification against Natural Variability.” <i>Nature Climate Change</i> 2.3 (2012): 167–171. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Gledhill, Dwight, Rik Wanninkhof, and C. Mark Eakin. “Observing Ocean Acidification from Space.” <i>Oceanography</i> 22.4 (2009): 48–59. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Gledhill, Dwight K. et al. “Ocean Acidification of the Greater Caribbean Region 1996–2006.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 113.C10 (2008): n/a–n/a. Web. 8 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Goldberg, Stuart J. et al. “Systematic Removal of Neutral Sugars within Dissolved Organic Matter across Ocean Basins.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 38.17 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 11 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Goldberg, S. J. et al. “Meridional Variability in Dissolved Organic Matter Stocks and Diagenetic State within the Euphotic and Mesopelagic Zone of the North Atlantic Subtropical Gyre.” <i>Marine Chemistry</i> 119.1-4 (2010): 9–21. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Goldberg, Stuart J. et al. “Temporal Dynamics of Dissolved Combined Neutral Sugars and the Quality of Dissolved Organic Matter in the Northwestern Sargasso Sea.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 56.5 (2009): 672–685. Web. 11 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">González-Dávila, M. et al. “Oxidation of copper(I) in Seawater at Nanomolar Levels.” <i>Marine Chemistry</i> 115.1-2 (2009): 118–124. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Goodkin, Nathalie F. et al. “Impacts of Temporal CO2 and Climate Trends on the Detection of Ocean Anthropogenic CO2 Accumulation.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 25.3 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 11 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Gourcuff, Claire et al. “Altimetry Combined with Hydrography for Ocean Transport Estimation.” <i>Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology</i> 28.10 (2011): 1324–1337. Web. 11 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Graven, H. D. et al. “Changing Controls on Oceanic Radiocarbon: New Insights on Shallow-to-Deep Ocean Exchange and Anthropogenic CO2 Uptake.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 117.C10 (2012): n/a–n/a. Web. 11 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Gruber, Nicolas et al. “Oceanic Sources, Sinks, and Transport of Atmospheric CO2.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 23.1 (2009): n/a–n/a. Web. 11 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hansell, Dennis A. “Dissolved Organic Carbon in the Carbon Cycle of the Indian Ocean.” <i>Geophysical Monograph Series</i>. Ed. Jerry D. Wiggert et al. Vol. 185. Washington, D. C.: American Geophysical Union, 2009. 217–230. Web. 11 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hansell, Dennis A., and Craig A. Carlson. “Localized Refractory Dissolved Organic Carbon Sinks in the Deep Ocean.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 27.3 (2013): 705–710. Web. 11 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hansell, D.A, and C.A Carlson. <i>Biogeochemistry of Marine Dissolved Organic Matter, 2nd Ed.</i> N.p. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hansell, Dennis et al. “Dissolved Organic Matter in the Ocean: A Controversy Stimulates New Insights.” <i>Oceanography</i> 22.4 (2009): 202–211. Web. 11 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hansell, Dennis A., Craig A. Carlson, and Reiner Schilitzer. “Net Removal of Major Marine Dissolved Organic Carbon Fractions in the Subsurface Ocean.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 26.1 (2012): n. pag. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hartin, Corinne. “Formation Rates of Subantarctic Mode Water and Antarctic Intermediate Water within the South Pacific.” <i>Deep-Sea Research Part I-Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 58 (2011): 524–534. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hartin, Corinne. “Subantarctic Mode and Antarctic Intermediate Water during the Present and Last Glacial Maximum.” <i>Open Access Dissertations</i> (2012): n. pag. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hauck, J. et al. “Data-Based Estimation of Anthropogenic Carbon and Acidification in the Weddell Sea on a Decadal Timescale.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 115.C3 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 21 Oct. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Helmle, Kevin P. et al. “Growth Rates of Florida Corals from 1937 to 1996 and Their Response to Climate Change.” <i>Nature Communications</i> 2 (2011): 215. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hewson, I et al. “Characteristics of Diazotrophs in Surface to Abyssopelagic Waters of the Sargasso Sea.” <i>Aquatic Microbial Ecology</i> 46 (2007): 15–30. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hofmann, A. F., E. T. Peltzer, and P. G. Brewer. “Kinetic Bottlenecks to Chemical Exchange Rates for Deep-Sea Animals II: Carbon Dioxide.” <i>Biogeosciences Discuss.</i> 9.11 (2012): 15787–15821. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hofmann, A. F., E. T. Peltzer, and P. G. Brewer. “Kinetic Bottlenecks to Chemical Exchange Rates for Deep-Sea Animals – Part 1: Oxygen.” <i>Biogeosciences Discuss.</i> 9.10 (2012): 13817–13856. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hofmann, A.F. et al. “Hypoxia by Degrees: Establishing Definitions for a Changing Ocean.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 58.12 (2011): 1212–1226. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Holte, J. W. et al. “Subantarctic Mode Water in the Southeast Pacific: Effect of Exchange across the Subantarctic Front.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 118.4 (2013): 2052–2066. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hönisch, Bärbel, and N. Gary Hemming. “Surface Ocean pH Response to Variations in pCO2 through Two Full Glacial Cycles.” <i>Earth and Planetary Science Letters</i> 236.1–2 (2005): 305–314. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hönisch, Bärbel, and N. Gary Hemming. “Ground-Truthing the Boron Isotope-Paleo-pH Proxy in Planktonic Foraminifera Shells: Partial Dissolution and Shell Size Effects.” <i>Paleoceanography</i> 19.4 (2004): n/a–n/a. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hönisch, Bärbel, Torsten Bickert, and N. Gary Hemming. “Modern and Pleistocene Boron Isotope Composition of the Benthic Foraminifer Cibicidoides Wuellerstorfi.” <i>Earth and Planetary Science Letters</i> 272.1–2 (2008): 309–318. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Hoppema, M. et al. “Consistency of Cruise Data of the CARINA Database in the Atlantic Sector of the Southern Ocean.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 1.1 (2009): 63–75. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Ishii, Masao et al. “Ocean Acidification off the South Coast of Japan: A Result from Time Series Observations of CO2 Parameters from 1994 to 2008.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 116.C6 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Jiao, Nianzhi et al. “Microbial Production of Recalcitrant Dissolved Organic Matter: Long-Term Carbon Storage in the Global Ocean.” <i>Nature Reviews Microbiology</i> 8.8 (2010): 593–599. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Johnson, Gregory C., and Scott C. Doney. “Recent Western South Atlantic Bottom Water Warming.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 33.14 (2006): n/a–n/a. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Johnson, Gregory C., and Nicolas Gruber. “Decadal Water Mass Variations along 20°W in the Northeastern Atlantic Ocean.” <i>Progress in Oceanography</i> 73.3–4 (2007): 277–295. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Johnson, Gregory C., and Kelly A. Kearney. “Ocean Climate Change Fingerprints Attenuated by Salt Fingering?” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 36.21 (2009): n/a–n/a. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Johnson, Gregory C., and Sarah G. Purkey. “Deep Caribbean Sea Warming.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 56.5 (2009): 827–834. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Johnson, Gregory, and Susan Wijffels. “Ocean Density Change Contributions to Sea Level Rise.” <i>Oceanography</i> 24.2 (2011): 112–121. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Johnson, Gregory C., Sarah G. Purkey, and John M. Toole. “Reduced Antarctic Meridional Overturning Circulation Reaches the North Atlantic Ocean.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 35.22 (2008): n/a–n/a. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Johnson, Gregory C., Sarah G. Purkey, and John L. Bullister. “Warming and Freshening in the Abyssal Southeastern Indian Ocean*.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> 21.20 (2008): 5351–5363. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Johnson, Gregory C. et al. “Recent Bottom Water Warming in the Pacific Ocean*.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> 20.21 (2007): 5365–5375. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Johnson, Gregory C., John L. Bullister, and Nicolas Gruber. “Labrador Sea Water Property Variations in the Northeastern Atlantic Ocean.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 32.7 (2005): n/a–n/a. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Jutterström, S. et al. “Arctic Ocean Data in CARINA.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 2.1 (2010): 71–78. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Katsumata, K., and M. Fukasawa. “Changes in Meridional Fluxes and Water Properties in the Southern Hemisphere Subtropical Oceans between 1992/1995 and 2003/2004.” <i>Progress in Oceanography</i> 89.1–4 (2011): 61–91. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Katsumata, K., B. M. Sloyan, and S. Masuda. “Diapycnal and Isopycnal Transports in the Southern Ocean Estimated by a Box Inverse Model.” <i>Journal of Physical Oceanography</i> 43.11 (2013): 2270–2287. Web. 27 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Kawano, Takeshi et al. “Heat Content Change in the Pacific Ocean between the 1990s and 2000s.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part II: Topical Studies in Oceanography</i> 57.13–14 (2010): 1141–1151. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Kawano, Takeshi et al. “Bottom Water Warming along the Pathway of Lower Circumpolar Deep Water in the Pacific Ocean.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 33.23 (2006): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Keeling, Ralph F., Arne Körtzinger, and Nicolas Gruber. “Ocean Deoxygenation in a Warming World.” <i>Annual Review of Marine Science</i> 2.1 (2010): 199–229. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Key, Robert, and Ann McNichol. “Radiocarbon Measurements in the Indian Ocean Aboard RVIB Nathaniel B. Palmer.” <i>Oceanography</i> 25.3 (2012): 152–153. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Key, R. M. et al. “The CARINA Data Synthesis Project: Introduction and Overview.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 2.1 (2010): 105–121. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Kouketsu, Shinya et al. “Deep Ocean Heat Content Changes Estimated from Observation and Reanalysis Product and Their Influence on Sea Level Change.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 116.C3 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Kouketsu, Shinya et al. “Changes in Water Properties around North Pacific Intermediate Water between the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part II: Topical Studies in Oceanography</i> 57.13–14 (2010): 1177–1187. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Kouketsu, Shinya et al. “Changes in Water Properties and Transports along 24°N in the North Pacific between 1985 and 2005.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 114.C1 (2009): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Kouketsu, Shinya et al. “Changes of North Pacific Intermediate Water Properties in the Subtropical Gyre.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 34.2 (2007): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Kunze, Eric et al. “Global Abyssal Mixing Inferred from Lowered ADCP Shear and CTD Strain Profiles.” <i>Journal of Physical Oceanography</i> 36.8 (2006): 1553–1576. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Lee, Sangkyun et al. “Spatial and Temporal Changes in the Concentration of Various Phosphorus Pools and Their Possible Biogeochemical Roles in the Oligotrophic Subtropical Western North Pacific.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 113.C3 (2008): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Lee, Sangkyun et al. “Concentration and UV Reactivity of Total Organic Carbon in the Upper Layer in the Oligotrophic Subtropical Western North Pacific.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 115.C11 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Lenton, Andrew et al. “The Observed Evolution of Oceanic pCO2 and Its Drivers over the Last Two Decades.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 26.2 (2012): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Letscher, R. T. “Dissolved Organic Nitrogen in the Global Surface Ocean: Distribution and Fate.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> (2013): n. pag. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Levine, Naomi Marcil et al. “The Impact of the North Atlantic Oscillation on the Uptake and Accumulation of Anthropogenic CO2 by North Atlantic Ocean Mode Waters.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 25.3 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Levine, Naomi Marcil et al. “Impact of Ocean Carbon System Variability on the Detection of Temporal Increases in Anthropogenic CO2.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 113.C3 (2008): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Lherminier, Pascale et al. “The Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation and the Subpolar Gyre Observed at the A25-OVIDE Section in June 2002 and 2004.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 57.11 (2010): 1374–1391. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Lherminier, P. et al. “Transports across the 2002 Greenland-Portugal Ovide Section and Comparison with 1997.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 112.C7 (2007): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Lo Monaco, C. et al. “Assessing the Internal Consistency of the CARINA Database in the Indian Sector of the Southern Ocean.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 2.1 (2010): 51–70. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Loose, Brice, and Peter Schlosser. “Sea Ice and Its Effect on CO2 Flux between the Atmosphere and the Southern Ocean Interior.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 116.C11 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Loose, B. et al. “Gas Diffusion through Columnar Laboratory Sea Ice: Implications for Mixed-Layer Ventilation of CO2 in the Seasonal Ice Zone.” <i>Tellus B</i> 63.1 (2011): 23–39. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Loose, B. et al. “An Optimized Estimate of Glacial Melt from the Ross Ice Shelf Using Noble Gases, Stable Isotopes, and CFC Transient Tracers.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 114.C8 (2009): n/a–n/a. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Lyman, John M., and Gregory C. Johnson. “Estimating Global Ocean Heat Content Changes in the Upper 1800 M since 1950 and the Influence of Climatology Choice*.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> (2013): 131122134155005. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Lyman, John M. et al. “Robust Warming of the Global Upper Ocean.” <i>Nature</i> 465.7296 (2010): 334–337. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Maas, A. E., K. F. Wishner, and B. A. Seibel. “The Metabolic Response of Pteropods to Acidification Reflects Natural CO2-Exposure in Oxygen Minimum Zones.” <i>Biogeosciences</i> 9.2 (2012): 747–757. Web. 28 Nov. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Manizza, M. et al. “A Model of the Arctic Ocean Carbon Cycle.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 116.C12 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Manizza, M. et al. “Changes in the Arctic Ocean CO2 Sink (1996–2007): A Regional Model Analysis.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> (2013): n/a–n/a. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Maritorena, Stéphane et al. “Merged Satellite Ocean Color Data Products Using a Bio-Optical Model: Characteristics, Benefits and Issues.” <i>Remote Sensing of Environment</i> 114.8 (2010): 1791–1804. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Masuda, Shuhei et al. “Simulated Rapid Warming of Abyssal North Pacific Waters.” <i>Science</i> 329.5989 (2010): 319–322. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Maze, G. et al. “Mass, Nutrient and Oxygen Budgets for the Northeastern Atlantic Ocean.” <i>Biogeosciences</i> 9.10 (2012): 4099–4113. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">McDougall, Trevor J. et al. <i>A Global Algorithm for Estimating Absolute Salinity</i>. N.p. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">McGrath, Triona et al. “Inorganic Carbon and pH Levels in the Rockall Trough 1991–2010.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 68 (2012): 79–91. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">McNeil, Ben I. et al. “An Empirical Estimate of the Southern Ocean Air-Sea CO2 Flux.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 21.3 (2007): n/a–n/a. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Mecking, Sabine et al. “Climate Variability in the North Pacific Thermocline Diagnosed from Oxygen Measurements: An Update Based on the U.S. CLIVAR/CO2 Repeat Hydrography Cruises.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 22.3 (2008): n/a–n/a. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Meredith, Michael P. et al. “Evolution of the Deep and Bottom Waters of the Scotia Sea, Southern Ocean, during 1995–2005*.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> 21.13 (2008): 3327–3343. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Midorikawa, Takashi et al. “Decreasing pH Trend Estimated from 25-Yr Time Series of Carbonate Parameters in the Western North Pacific.” <i>Tellus B</i> 62.5 (2010): 649–659. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Midorikawa, Takashi et al. “Interannual Variability of Winter Oceanic CO2 and Air-Sea CO2 Flux in the Western North Pacific for 2 Decades.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 111.C7 (2006): n/a–n/a. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Millero, Frank. “Thoughts of John W. Morse a Friend and Colleague.” <i>Marine Chemistry</i> 121.1-4 (2010): 1. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Millero, Frank J. <i>History of the Equation of State of Seawater</i>. N.p. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Millero, F. J., and B. R. DiTrolio. “Use of Thermodynamics in Examining the Effects of Ocean Acidification.” <i>Elements</i> 6.5 (2010): 299–303. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Millero, Frank J. et al. “The Composition of Standard Seawater and the Definition of the Reference-Composition Salinity Scale.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I</i> 55.1 (2008): 50–72. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Millero, Frank J et al. “Partial Molal Volumes and Compressibilities of Phosphoric Acid and Sodium Phosphates in 0.725 Molal NaCl at 25 °C.” <i>The journal of physical chemistry. B</i> 114.49 (2010): 16099–104. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Millet, D. B. et al. “Global Atmospheric Budget of Acetaldehyde: 3-D Model Analysis and Constraints from in-Situ and Satellite Observations.” <i>Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics</i> 10.7 (2010): 3405–3425. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Nagata, Toshi et al. “Emerging Concepts on Microbial Processes in the Bathypelagic Ocean – Ecology, Biogeochemistry, and Genomics.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part II: Topical Studies in Oceanography</i> 57.16 (2010): 1519–1536. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Nakano, Toshiya et al. “Mid-Depth Freshening in the North Pacific Subtropical Gyre Observed along the JMA Repeat and WOCE Hydrographic Sections.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 34.23 (2007): n/a–n/a. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Nelson, Craig, and Craig Carlson. “A Non-Radioactive Assay of Bacterial Productivity Optimized for Oligotrophic Pelagic Environments.” <i>Limnology and Oceanography: Methods</i> 3 (2005): 211–230. Print.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Nelson, Norman B. et al. “Tracing Global Biogeochemical Cycles and Meridional Overturning Circulation Using Chromophoric Dissolved Organic Matter.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 37.3 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Nelson, Norman B. et al. “Hydrography of Chromophoric Dissolved Organic Matter in the North Atlantic.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 54.5 (2007): 710–731. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Olsen, A. et al. “Overview of the Nordic Seas CARINA Data and Salinity Measurements.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 1.1 (2009): 25–34. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Omori, Yuko et al. “Relationship between the Seasonal Change in Fluorescent Dissolved Organic Matter and Mixed Layer Depth in the Subtropical Western North Pacific.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 115.C6 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Orellana, Mónica V., and Dennis A. Hansell. “Ribulose-1,5-Bisphosphate Carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO): A Long Lived Protein in the Deep Ocean.” <i>Limnology and Oceanography</i> 57.3 (2012): 826–834. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Ortega-Retuerta, E. et al. “Observations of Chromophoric Dissolved and Detrital Organic Matter Distribution Using Remote Sensing in the Southern Ocean: Validation, Dynamics and Regulation.” <i>Journal of Marine Systems</i> 82.4 (2010): 295–303. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">OSB, and DELS. <i>Ocean Acidification: A National Strategy to Meet the Challenges of a Changing Ocean</i>. N.p. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Pawlowicz, R., D. G. Wright, and F. J. Millero. “The Effects of Biogeochemical Processes on Oceanic Conductivity/salinity/density Relationships and the Characterization of Real Seawater.” <i>Ocean Science</i> 7.3 (2011): 363–387. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Pérez, Fiz F. et al. “Atlantic Ocean CO2 Uptake Reduced by Weakening of the Meridional Overturning Circulation.” <i>Nature Geoscience</i> 6.2 (2013): 146–152. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Pérez, F. F. et al. “Trends of Anthropogenic CO2 Storage in North Atlantic Water Masses.” <i>Biogeosciences</i> 7.5 (2010): 1789–1807. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Pérez, F. F. et al. “Temporal Variability of the Anthropogenic CO2 Storage in the Irminger Sea.” <i>Biogeosciences</i> 5.6 (2008): 1669–1679. Web. 2 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Pettine, Maurizio et al. “The Effect of Organic Compounds in the Oxidation Kinetics of Cr(III) by H2O2.” <i>Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta</i> 72.23 (2008): 5692–5707. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Pierrot, D. et al. “CARINA TCO2 Data in the Atlantic Ocean.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 2.2 (2010): 177–187. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Plancherel, Yves. “A Study of the Ocean’s Water Masses Using Data and Models.” Princeton University, 2012. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Purkey, Sarah G., and Gregory C. Johnson. “Global Contraction of Antarctic Bottom Water between the 1980s and 2000s*.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> 25.17 (2012): 5830–5844. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Purkey, Sarah G., and Gregory C. Johnson. “Warming of Global Abyssal and Deep Southern Ocean Waters between the 1990s and 2000s: Contributions to Global Heat and Sea Level Rise Budgets*.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> 23.23 (2010): 6336–6351. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Robinson, Carol et al. “Mesopelagic Zone Ecology and Biogeochemistry – a Synthesis.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part II: Topical Studies in Oceanography</i> 57.16 (2010): 1504–1518. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Rodgers, Keith B. et al. “Using Altimetry to Help Explain Patchy Changes in Hydrographic Carbon Measurements.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 114.C9 (2009): n/a–n/a. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sabine, Christopher L., and Toste Tanhua. “Estimation of Anthropogenic CO2 Inventories in the Ocean.” <i>Annual Review of Marine Science</i> 2.1 (2010): 175–198. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sabine, Christopher L. et al. “Decadal Changes in Pacific Carbon.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 113.C7 (2008): n/a–n/a. Web. 23 Feb. 2014.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Safarov, J. et al. “(p,ρ,T) Properties of Seawater: Extensions to High Salinities.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 65 (2012): 146–156. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Santinelli, C, D.A Hansell, and M. Ribera d’Alcala. “Influence of Stratification on Marine DOC Dynamics: The Mediterranean Sea Case.” <i>Progress in Oceanography</i> 119 (2013): 68–77. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sarafanov, Artem et al. “Mean Full-Depth Summer Circulation and Transports at the Northern Periphery of the Atlantic Ocean in the 2000s.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 117.C1 (2012): n/a–n/a. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sarafanov, Artem et al. “Assessing Decadal Changes in the Deep Western Boundary Current Absolute Transport Southeast of Cape Farewell, Greenland, from Hydrography and Altimetry.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 115.C11 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sarafanov, Artem et al. “Recent Changes in the Greenland–Scotland Overflow-Derived Water Transport Inferred from Hydrographic Observations in the Southern Irminger Sea.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 36.13 (2009): n/a–n/a. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sarmiento, J. L. et al. “Deep Ocean Biogeochemistry of Silicic Acid and Nitrate.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 21.1 (2007): n/a–n/a. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Schmidtko, Sunke, and Gregory C. Johnson. “Multidecadal Warming and Shoaling of Antarctic Intermediate Water*.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> 25.1 (2012): 207–221. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Schmittner, A. et al. “Biology and Air–sea Gas Exchange Controls on the Distribution of Carbon Isotope Ratios (δ13C) in the Ocean.” <i>Biogeosciences</i> 10.9 (2013): 5793–5816. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sharma, Virender K, George W Luther, and Frank J Millero. “Mechanisms of Oxidation of Organosulfur Compounds by ferrate(VI).” <i>Chemosphere</i> 82.8 (2011): 1083–9. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sharma, Virender K. et al. “Solubility of Ferrate(VI) in NaOH−KOH Mixtures at Different Temperatures.” <i>Journal of Chemical &amp; Engineering Data</i> 55.12 (2010): 5594–5597. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sloyan, Bernadette M. “Antarctic Bottom and Lower Circumpolar Deep Water Circulation in the Eastern Indian Ocean.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 111.C2 (2006): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sloyan, B. M. “Spatial Variability of Mixing in the Southern Ocean.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 32.18 (2005): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sloyan, Bernadette M., and Igor V. Kamenkovich. “Simulation of Subantarctic Mode and Antarctic Intermediate Waters in Climate Models.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> 20.20 (2007): 5061–5080. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sloyan, Bernadette M. et al. “Deep Ocean Changes near the Western Boundary of the South Pacific Ocean.” <i>Journal of Physical Oceanography</i> 43.10 (2013): 2132–2141. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Souma, Kazuyoshi et al. “Use of Ensemble Simulations to Evaluate the Urban Effect on a Localized Heavy Rainfall Event in Tokyo, Japan.” <i>Journal of Hydro-environment Research</i> 7.4 (2013): 228–235. Web. 17 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Steinberg, Deborah K., and Dennis A. Hansell. “Introduction to: ‘Ecological and Biogeochemical Interactions in the Dark Ocean.’” <i>Deep Sea Research Part II: Topical Studies in Oceanography</i> 57.16 (2010): 1429–1432. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Steinfeldt, R. et al. “Atlantic CFC Data in CARINA.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 2.1 (2010): 1–15. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Steinfeldt, Reiner et al. “Inventory Changes in Anthropogenic Carbon from 1997–2003 in the Atlantic Ocean between 20°S and 65°N.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 23.3 (2009): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Stendardo, I., N. Gruber, and A. Körtzinger. “CARINA Oxygen Data in the Atlantic Ocean.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 1.1 (2009): 87–100. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Stramma, Lothar et al. “Ocean Oxygen Minima Expansions and Their Biological Impacts.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 57.4 (2010): 587–595. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Stramma, Lothar et al. “Eastern Pacific Oxygen Minimum Zones: Supply Paths and Multidecadal Changes.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 115.C9 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Stramma, Lothar et al. “Deoxygenation in the Oxygen Minimum Zone of the Eastern Tropical North Atlantic.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 36.20 (2009): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Stramma, Lothar et al. “Expanding Oxygen-Minimum Zones in the Tropical Oceans.” <i>Science</i> 320.5876 (2008): 655–658. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Swan, Chantal M. et al. “A Model for Remote Estimation of Ultraviolet Absorption by Chromophoric Dissolved Organic Matter Based on the Global Distribution of Spectral Slope.” <i>Remote Sensing of Environment</i> 136 (2013): 277–285. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Swan, Chantal M. et al. “The Effect of Surface Irradiance on the Absorption Spectrum of Chromophoric Dissolved Organic Matter in the Global Ocean.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 63 (2012): 52–64. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Swan, Chantal M. et al. “Biogeochemical and Hydrographic Controls on Chromophoric Dissolved Organic Matter Distribution in the Pacific Ocean.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research Papers</i> 56.12 (2009): 2175–2192. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Sweeney, Colm et al. “Constraining Global Air-Sea Gas Exchange for CO2 with Recent Bomb 14C Measurements.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 21.2 (2007): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Swift, James, and Alejandro Orsi. “Sixty-Four Days of Hydrography and Storms: RVIB Nathaniel B. Palmer’s 2011 S04P Cruise.” <i>Oceanography</i> 25.3 (2012): 54–55. Web. 3 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Takatani, Yusuke et al. “Decrease of Dissolved Oxygen after the Mid-1980s in the Western North Pacific Subtropical Gyre along the 137°E Repeat Section.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 26.2 (2012): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Tanhua, T., and R. F. Keeling. “Changes in Column Inventories of Carbon and Oxygen in the Atlantic Ocean.” <i>Biogeosciences</i> 9.11 (2012): 4819–4833. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Tanhua, Toste, Darryn W. Waugh, and John L. Bullister. “Estimating Changes in Ocean Ventilation from Early 1990s CFC-12 and Late 2000s SF6 Measurements.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 40.5 (2013): 927–932. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Tanhua, T. et al. “Atlantic Ocean CARINA Data: Overview and Salinity Adjustments.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 2.1 (2010): 17–34. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Tanhua, Toste et al. “Expanding Carbon Data Collection From the Ocean’s Interior.” <i>Eos, Transactions American Geophysical Union</i> 91.48 (2010): 457–458. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Tanhua, T. et al. “Quality Control Procedures and Methods of the CARINA Database.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 2.1 (2010): 35–49. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Tanhua, T., P. J. Brown, and R. M. Key. “CARINA: Nutrient Data in the Atlantic Ocean.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 1.1 (2009): 7–24. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Tanhua, Toste et al. “An Estimate of Anthropogenic CO2 Inventory from Decadal Changes in Oceanic Carbon Content.” <i>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</i> 104.9 (2007): 3037–3042. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Tanhua, Toste et al. “Changes of Anthropogenic CO2 and CFCs in the North Atlantic between 1981 and 2004.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 20.4 (2006): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Thierry, V., E. de Boisséson, and H. Mercier. “Interannual Variability of the Subpolar Mode Water Properties over the Reykjanes Ridge during 1990–2006.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 113.C4 (2008): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Torres-Valdés, Sinhué et al. “Export of Nutrients from the Arctic Ocean.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 118.4 (2013): 1625–1644. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Trapp, John Michael, Frank J. Millero, and Joseph M. Prospero. “Trends in the Solubility of Iron in Dust-Dominated Aerosols in the Equatorial Atlantic Trade Winds: Importance of Iron Speciation and Sources.” <i>Geochemistry, Geophysics, Geosystems</i> 11.3 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Trossman, David S. <i>Advection-Diffusion Process Inference Via Statistical Oceanographic Methods in the North Atlantic and Southern Oceans</i>. N.p., 2011. Print.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Trossman, D. S. et al. “On the Formation, Ventilation, and Erosion of Mode Waters in the North Atlantic and Southern Oceans.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 117.C9 (2012): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Trossman, David S., LuAnne Thompson, and Susan L. Hautala. “Application of Thin-Plate Splines in Two Dimensions to Oceanographic Tracer Data.” <i>Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology</i> 28.11 (2011): 1522–1538. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">van Heuven, Steven M. A. C. et al. “Direct Observation of Increasing CO2 in the Weddell Gyre along the Prime Meridian during 1973–2008.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part II: Topical Studies in Oceanography</i> 58.25–26 (2011): 2613–2635. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">van Sebille, Erik et al. “Tasman Leakage in a Fine-Resolution Ocean Model.” <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i> 39.6 (2012): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Vázquez-Rodríguez, M. et al. “Observed Acidification Trends in North Atlantic Water Masses.” <i>Biogeosciences</i> 9.12 (2012): 5217–5230. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Velo, A. et al. “Total Alkalinity Estimation Using MLR and Neural Network Techniques.” <i>Journal of Marine Systems</i> 111–112 (2013): 11–18. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Velo, A. et al. “CARINA Data Synthesis Project: pH Data Scale Unification and Cruise Adjustments.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 2.1 (2010): 133–155. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Velo, A. et al. “CARINA Alkalinity Data in the Atlantic Ocean.” <i>Earth System Science Data</i> 1.1 (2009): 45–61. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">W. D. Gardner, A. V. Mishonov. “Global POC Concentrations from in-Situ and Satellite Data.” <i>Deep Sea Research Part II: Topical Studies in Oceanography</i> (2006): 718–740. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Wanninkhof, Rik et al. “Detecting Anthropogenic CO2 Changes in the Interior Atlantic Ocean between 1989 and 2005.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans</i> 115.C11 (2010): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Wanninkhof, R., R. Feely, F. Millero, R. Curry, D. Hansell, R. Key, J. Swift, B. Smethie, R. Fine, B. Jenkins, A. McNichol, and E. Druffel. <i>Carbon Dioxide, Hydrographic, and Chemical Data Obtained During the R/V Atlantis Cruise in the Atlantic Ocean on CLIVAR Repeat Hydrography Section A22 (Mar. 24 - Apr. 17, 2012)</i>. N.p., 2013. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Weijer, Wilbert et al. “The Southern Ocean and Its Climate in CCSM4.” <i>Journal of Climate</i> 25.8 (2012): 2652–2675. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Williams, Richard G. et al. “Nutrient Streams in the North Atlantic: Advective Pathways of Inorganic and Dissolved Organic Nutrients.” <i>Global Biogeochemical Cycles</i> 25.4 (2011): n/a–n/a. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Willis, Josh K. et al. “In Situ Data Biases and Recent Ocean Heat Content Variability*.” <i>Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology</i> 26.4 (2009): 846–852. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Wilson, R W et al. “Contribution of Fish to the Marine Inorganic Carbon Cycle.” <i>Science (New York, N.Y.)</i> 323.5912 (2009): 359–62. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Woosely, Ryan J., and Frank J. Millero. <i>Pitzer Model for the Speciation of Lead Chloride and Carbonate Complexes in Natural Waters -</i>. Vol. 149. Marine Chemsitry. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Woosley, Ryan J., and Frank J. Millero. “The Hydrolysis of Al(III) in NaCl Solutions: A Model for M(II), M(III), and M(IV) Ions.” <i>Aquatic Geochemistry</i> 16.3 (2009): 317–324. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Woosley, Ryan J., Frank J. Millero, and Martin Grosell. “The Solubility of Fish-Produced High Magnesium Calcite in Seawater.” <i>Journal of Geophysical Research</i> 117.C4 (2012): C04018. Web.</div></li>
<li><div class="csl-entry">Zika, Jan D., Bernadette M. Sloyan, and Trevor J. McDougall. “Diagnosing the Southern Ocean Overturning from Tracer Fields.” <i>Journal of Physical Oceanography</i> 39.11 (2009): 2926–2940. Web. 16 Dec. 2013.</div></li>

</ul>