---
layout: post
title: "S4P: 19 FEB 2011 (LETTER)"
date: 2013-09-30 21:49:16 +0000
---
Dear Family, Friends, and Colleagues,

Most things are going well, with a few exceptions (more or less as usual). We
took shuttles to the ship Thursday after lunch, and after a quick introductory
tour and some safety reminders, we began unloading our cargo from the
container vans that had been shipped south from California in December. We had
six 20x8x8 foot vans, plus there was quite a bit of loose cargo that arrived
by air. I heard someone say we loaded 90,000 lbs of cargo.

The RPSC techs here were efficient in getting a van onto the deck, where our
team would unload it like a swarm of army ants, then RPSC would swing it back
down to the dock and replace it with another. There was deck space for two
vans at a time so we worked nearly continuously. I thought we would be working
into the night, but we got all the main load done before dinner, with most
boxes in the correct lab. There was lots of sorting out to do, and some more
items came Friday morning, but even before Thursday's dinner people were
setting up equipment.

We still do not know the full extent of freeze damage caused by someone
allowing most of our "Do Not Freeze" scientific cargo to freeze, but it
appears to be light. Miraculously our seawater standards for salinity and
carbon were in the one van that was kept above freezing - if either had frozen
I would have had to cancel the cruise.

Mary Johnson (our CTD data processor) noticed mold in some of the computer-
related boxes she was unpacking, and soon found damp, moldy office supplies
and manuals, and more mold in other boxes. There were several plastic tote
boxes with four or more inches of water with moldy, now frozen, contents, and
others with some water/mold. The only thing we can figure was that someone
took these items out of the well-packed SIO cargo container in California when
it was raining. Then the wet items molded on the trip south and froze in the
Antarctic. I lost all my office supplies and my back-up hard drive (frozen
solid in a block of ice), and some of my sea clothes are now battered and
splotchy after being washed twice in hot water and bleach. Thank goodness I am
very conservative about my packing - because I have enough sea clothes to get
by, and I brought a second back-up hard drive in my luggage. Fortunately the
bassoon I brought - shipped in that same container - was dry and fine.

There have been a couple of Adelie penguins (one either old or molting - See
left) hanging around near the ice pier and one molting Emperor penguin, too
(see photos). I also attached a photo of the Palmer at the ice pier, and a
shot of me (See above right) after I walked out of the Air Force C-17 onto the
ice shelf runway near McMurdo.

As some of you know, I am an amateur bassoonist, playing in the La Jolla
Symphony (look them up on YouTube; I suggest the "Frog's Eye" performance as a
good starter). The symphony's first bassoonist, Tom Schubert, loans me a
bassoon of his to take on my trips (probably hoping it will improve my
playing!). To accompany the photo of me playing Tom's bassoon at the North
Pole in 2005, I have attached a photo of me playing in Antarctica this
morning, with the 109-year-old Scott "Discovery" hut in the background. It was
windy, about 18 °F, with light snow. My fingers were cold, and the sound was
not so good, but no matter: I did it! (Thanks, Tom!)

We leave at noon tomorrow (the 20th on this side of the date line), a day
later than planned, but necessary due to the sequencing of events dictated by
McMurdo's closing for the winter in a couple of days. I have a great team
here, and the ship's crew and RPSC staff are very supportive. The steward and
the chief engineer (both key people and both great) remember me from 2003. The
captain and I enjoy each other's company. So it's already feeling like a "sea
family". I'm optimistic that we have an enjoyable and successful venture
ahead.

By the time of my next message we should have completed our test casts and be
starting our scientific work off Adelie Land in the northwestern Ross Sea. All
is well.

Best Regards,  
Jim Swift  
Chief Scientist  
NBP-1102 (S4P)


