---
layout: post
title: "S4P: 09 MAR 2011 (LETTER)"
date: 2013-10-02 17:43:41 +0000
---
Dear Family, Friends, and Colleagues,

What is remarkable about most of the past week may be how unremarkable it was:
after a long storm (our 4th!) which stopped our work last Thursday morning
finally abated in the wee hours Saturday, we have been working steadily on our
measurement program, just as we usually do and expect to do on these cruises.
We are making fine progress, though are about 4.5 days behind the expedition
deadline timeline. Small problems pop up in the equipment from time to time,
and we have found some ways to improve a few procedures - pretty much business
as usual. (I'll get into our science program in future letters.) The sameness
of the work - we are either on station or steaming between stations around the
clock - is an oddly comforting measure of progress. Of course, we very much
enjoy the little breaks nature provides...

Icebergs are a reliable scenic highlight of working near Antarctica, and when
we chance upon one on a sunny moment (one of my photos is attached) or at
sunrise or sunset (attached unenhanced sunset photo taken by Aimee Neeley on
the right), it's time to bring out the cameras.

Along with some clear periods during days has come some clear periods at
night, and we have seen the Aurora Australis ("Southern Lights") a few times.
Our PolarTREC teacher, Juan Botella, captured some excellent night photos from
a moving ship (!). I have attached two (See left and below), enhanced for
light level only. Notice the stars of Orion's belt in one of them?

A few humpback whales visited the ship the other day, playing around (or
feeding?) a bit before swimming off. Juan captured some nice photos (one is
attached - see right). Nature is not the only source of welcome breaks: the
galley staff is great at keeping morale (and waistlines) at a maximum. Fresh
bagels made a surprise appearance, the cookie supply seems endless, the meal
entrees are as tasty and varied as ever (with some excellent vegetarian
dishes, too) - and I don't know what it was about Mexican night, but just
about everyone went back for seconds. Of course, because the ship was
resupplied in that garden spot known as McMurdo, no one is surprised that the
fresh vegetable supply is dwindling - lettuce is gone now, as expected.

This is a harmonious, very good natured bunch. Cribbage and foosball
tournaments are in full swing, groups linger at meals to enjoy conversations,
music is heard from time to time. All is well aboard the Nathaniel B. Palmer.

Jim Swift  
Chief Scientist  
NBP-1102 / S04P


