---
layout: post
title: "S4P: 17 MAR 2011 (LETTER)"
date: 2013-10-02 18:06:56 +0000
---
Dear Family, Friends, and Colleagues,

A few hours ago we finished our planned line of stations 525 nautical miles
straight south from 67°S (roughly the Antarctic Circle) to the Antarctic
continental shelf, stopping every 30 miles to make measurements. This
completes for the first time the southern end of a long transect of
oceanographic measurements extending from Kodiak Island, Alaska, to
Antarctica, known to oceanographers as "line P16". The entire ship's company
carried this out with their usual expertise, efficiency, and good cheer. We
have all enjoyed the good weather and lack of equipment problems. The last
group of 5 closely-spaced stations were carried out in highly varied and
increasingly more impressive ice ranging from the smallest newly-formed frazil
ice that "greases" the sea surface, to new "pancake ice" of various sizes
(very easy going), to first (easy) and multi-year (hard) sea ice, to
impressively thick pieces of broken off ice shelf (impossible), to mighty
icebergs (likewise). The Palmer's mates and our expert ice pilot Vladimir
Repin enjoy the challenge of guiding the ship through the maze of ice - they
can slide and power easily through the easy ice but of course must not hit the
big stuff. It gets spicier at night, which is when Vladimir has his fun. The
ship's large bridge (where the ship is steered) has great all-around views and
is The Place To Be when one has a bit of time off, though the weather has been
so good that many have bundled up a bit and tried watching icebreaking from
the bow or other points outdoors on the ship. The ice and icebergs provide
many photo opportunities and we frequently come across penguins and basking
seals. Icebreaker novices and old hands alike are enjoying this E-ticket ride
(younger readers may have to look up that
[term](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E_ticket)).

As we worked our way south we edged closer and closer to the edge of the
"footprints" of both of the geosynchronous INMARSAT satellites (one over the
Atlantic equator and the other over the Pacific equator) that provide our
primary email communications - we are so far south that even though these
satellites sit in orbit thousands of miles above the equator, they are below
our horizon. Sometimes we can "see" one of the satellites and the RPSC techs
do a quick burst of email exchanges. In one sense it matters little - we are
self-contained and have everything we need to complete our work - but we do
grow accustomed to exchanging information, ideas, and correspondence with
those ashore, and so the interruption reminds us how far away we really are
here in the far south.

One of the oddities of working west-east (or east-west) in the Pacific Ocean
is the date line. Most oceanographers and experienced travelers reading this
are well aware of it, but many people ashore find it hard to understand that
somewhere (i.e., the date line) the date and day of the week must change by
one unit forward, if one is traveling west, or backwards, if traveling east.
Indeed, we did that crossing (eastward) some time ago but saved our change to
celebrate St. Patrick's Day (Thursday, March 17th) twice on the ship, once
today and again tomorrow. (If we had been going west we would have skipped one
day/date when we made the adjustment.) This does not affect the times we
record with our measurements one bit because for those we use "Universal
Time", which was formerly known as "Greenwich Mean Time".

Our cruise is now approximately at its half-way point. We are steaming west
toward the sites where we will recover two strings of moored instruments co-
chief scientist Alex Orsi deployed February 2010. We will then resume our CTD
work with our third crossing of the Antarctic continental slope.

It is no surprise that I continue to enjoy working with our team at sea. I may
have planned a very long cruise but with this team it is a productive and
happy one. All is well aboard the Nathaniel B. Palmer.

Jim Swift  
Chief Scientist  
NBP-1102 / S04P

Photos this week include a beautiful sunset/iceberg photo by Nancy Williams,
Wilson Mendoza's photo of two Emperor penguins, a photo showing several of the
many ice types we see, a photo showing the view from the bridge (with second
mate Brandon Bell and PO grad student Eric Mortenson), and a photo showing a
group of penguins who are living on an iceberg, including a few living
surprisingly high up on it.


