---
layout: post
title: "S4P: 17 FEB 2011 (LETTER)"
date: 2013-09-30 19:59:20 +0000
---
Dear Family, Friends, and Colleagues,

Greetings from Antarctica! Our team traveled from our homes first to
Christchurch, New Zealand, where we assembled and enjoyed the sunny weather
and green gardens before our trip south. We had been told ahead to pack a
"boomerang bag" which we would take with us if our flight to Antarctica was
turned back en route by fast-changing Antarctic weather, because we would not
get all our luggage back until we finally made it to Antarctica. (We found out
that the record for consecutive boomerangs was seven!) We had also been told
that certain items were required in our carry on bags, which had to fit under
our seats. We thought these were one in the same so were quite relieved to be
told during the pre-flight briefing the day before our flight that the
boomerang bag was just one of our checked bags.

Our 5-hour flight from Christchurch to McMurdo was on a US Air Force C-17
transport. The flight was smooth (and noisy - we wore ear plugs), and the bag
lunch they gave us enough for two. We got to take turns going into the cockpit
to take photos of Antarctica from the aircraft. The landing was super-smooth
and then, Wow!, we stepped out and found ourselves on this giant ice sheet in
Antarctica, with a smoking Mt. Erebus in the background! The US Antarctic
Program (USAP) staff took us in large polar transporters across the ice sheet
and then around roads to the McMurdo base. On the way we saw penguins, seals,
the New Zealand base, and more great bleak Antarctic scenery. We had a quick
orientation briefing, were issued room keys and linens, told where to get food
and our luggage, and given a schedule for a few events we'd want to attend.

The large USAP McMurdo base resembles a clean, well-run polar mining town with
about 1000 residents. There are no commercial activities, but otherwise it has
just about everything you'd expect: dorms, a cafeteria (serving a variety of
hearty food), a small store, post office, coffee house, bar, labs, gyms,
support buildings ad infinitum, lots of heavy equipment, warehouses, fuel
tanks, etc. Impressive attention is paid to waste management, recycling, and
environmental stewardship, making it one of the cleanest towns on earth. There
is a port - open only a very short time each year, and that only after break-
in by a heavy icebreaker - with a man-made pier made of reinforced ice. There
are hiking trails and historic sites. We had a guided tour to Robert Scott's
"Discovery Hut" from 1902, close by the base
(seehttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discovery_Hut). While anyone can walk there,
because we had a guide we were allowed inside, seven at a time. In the
"freeze-dried" environment of Antarctica, everything down to animal carcasses
awaiting skinning and boxes of supplies was just as it was, and is being left
that way for the future.

Speaking of "freeze-dried", that's how we felt after walking back from the hut
to the base into a stiff and very cold wind - evening air temperature had
dropped to 5 degF - the term "wind chill" (in that case well below -20) was
certainly appropriate! (In Christchurch the USAP issued us cold weather
clothing, and we were glad we had it.) But for the most part temperatures have
been in the teens, and today's 23 degF and light winds make it feel almost
balmy. Our ship, the research icebreaker Nathaniel B. Palmer, arrived
yesterday morning and fueling began immediately. (The McMurdo base reverts to
its 200-person winter status this weekend and the fueling crew needed to get
done so they could head home.) The departing science party will be off the
ship this morning, and we board and begin loading right after lunch today.

There have been many little hiccups along the way, and one giant one: Much of
our "do not freeze" cargo was inexplicably left sitting out in sub-freezing
conditions, despite being correctly and unmistakably labeled as "Do Not
Freeze". (There are procedures for this, beginning with a cargo plan before we
even ship the items from our labs, and every group affected by this incredible
blunder had followed instructions perfectly.) Even the ship's "do not freeze"
food was sitting out in the cold. One container of our DNF cargo was correctly
kept above freezing, and by some miracle that contained the standards for
salinity and carbon, without which we would have had to cancel the expedition.
But the Argo floats - worth $500,000 - were not so lucky, and must be shipped
back, unused. (They would have provided the first winter CTD casts from much
of this region.) We will not know the extent of damage to our other programs
until we begin measurements, but we are hopeful that we can work around most
problems.

We have a very good team for this cruise. I enjoy the way everyone gets along
together and can tell already we will work together well as one team. I met
the Captain last night, and was impressed in every respect. Our on-board
Raytheon Polar Services Corporation support staff are a good bunch. So
prospects are good for our upcoming voyage. Last night we all unwound in the
bar, and in a few hours we begin loading. I'll report again when we leave
port.

Best Regards,

Jim Swift

PS - Because I do not go onto the ship's very limited email
(james.swift.guest@nbp.usap.gov) until tomorrow, I can send lots of photos
today from the McMurdo base internet:


