---
layout: post
title: "P6 Leg 2 Week #2"
date: 2017-09-03 20:00:00 +0800
---
<style>
img + em {
 text-align: justify;
 display: block;
 padding-left: 2em;
 padding-right: 2em;
}
</style>

Read the cruise report from leg 2 of P6 week #2, along with continuously updated blog posts.

[Blog site](http://usgoship-p062017.blogspot.com)

[Cruise Report Week #2](https://usgoship.ucsd.edu/files/WeeklyReport02_P062017Leg2.pdf)    

<!--more-->
**P6 Leg 2 Week 2 Report**

1400 local time September 2017 <br>
32 30’ S 131 28’ W, winds 10-15 kn <br>
Stn 164

Weather delays this week compound with our initial start farther west than planned, the addition of the NASA team’s noon profiling (new to Leg 2), and a non-negligible amount of time to be devoted to deploy 42 floats and drifters. There was, unfortunately, a decision to cut stations and increase station spacing. In my view (KS) these cuts do not compromise the goals of the program; we are increasing spacing in the interior and are aiming to maintain tight spacing near the eastern boundary where strong narrow boundary currents are expected.

A word on time lost to weather. This week we lost about 1 day on stations 145-150, with condition better on Stn 151. Good progress subsequently until Stn 161 when larger waves entered the Baltic Room, knocking into the CTD and MT. No injuries but a lesson to respect the confused sea-state. Winds built to 40 kn and waves 15-20 ft, stalling operations, losing over one day to weather at this station. Finally, Stn 162 was accomplished with reduced seas, and weather conditions forecast to improve. All told, we have lost a bit over 2 days to weather thus far on Leg 2.

All instruments are reported to be working well, sample analyses are going smoothly. Argo floats and a SOCCOM float were deployed and are reported to be operating normally. Various tournaments are underway; the largest crowd, though, seems to be around the daily crossword puzzle.

I would like to thank the marine techs and crew for their help getting our stations done in poor conditions as well as good.

Kevin Speer (Chief Scientist)<br> 
Lena Schulze (co-Chief Scientist)
